Welcome to Moviecaps.
Today I will show you a Drama, Horror, Sci-fi,
Thriller film from 2011, titled The Divide.
Spoilers ahead!
Watch out and take care.
Explosions devastate New York City.
the residents of the apartment block rush
down the stairs to flee the building, only
to be forced into the basement by further
explosions.
Only eight of the residents manage to force
their way into the building's bunker before
the janitor, Mickey, locks the door.
He turns on the generator and the lights.
The group gets used to the cramped conditions
while Mickey enforces his rule over the bunker,
declaring that they must not open the door
under any circumstances until the radiation
has subsided.
A little girl (Wendi) comes to Mickey and
tells him she does not want to stay here.
Well sweetie, if you leave, your face will
melt away.
Her mother (Marilyn) takes her in stride.
Sam inquires if that was a nuke.
Mickey says definitely and blames other ethnicities.
Delvin asks what Mickey's plan is for getting
out of this situation.
“You want to survive?
Listen to me.”
Eva asks if anyone has a signal, Adrien already
tried, no luck.
Mickey tosses the radio to Delvin to try.
Mickey shows everyone the basement, storage
cells, his room and bathroom.
When asked why he has so many mattresses,
he says he's the supervisor of the apartment
building.
Bobby remarks that the toilet is disgusting,
Mickey says it's called saving water.
Mickey shares with his stash of canned beans
to feed everyone.
Delvin is still trying the radio, but there's
only static.
The group feels trapped and after asking how
much longer they have to stay here and get
the same answer - as long as Mickey says - Josh
and Bobby decide to leave on their own.
Mickey yells to get away from the door, grabs
an axe and swings it at Josh, no one leaves.
Bobby and Josh have major tension with Mickey.
Sam sees that Eva still has his card and starts
telling her that they will get through this
because they love each other.
Eva has not known Adrien long and looks disinterested.
While Mickey is heating up the beans, Josh
complains that he eats the same crap every
day.
When Mickey puts him in his place and says
he's feeding them his supplies, Sam flies
into rage and starts throwing a tantrum, how
can he talk about beans when everyone is probably
dead outside.
Tensions escalate and Mickey stands up and
slaps him across the face.
Mickey calms Wendy down by showing her a magic
trick with his finger.
Suddenly a noise at the door startles everyone.
Mickey shouts to turn off the lights.
Something is wrong.
Someone from outside is burning a hole in
the door.
Some get hopeful, thinking it's a rescue and
they'll finally get out.
Delvin pulls back.
The door opens and four unknown men in hazmat
suits come in with radiation detectors and
rifles.
They incapacitate Marilyn and kidnap young
Wendi, carrying her out of the bunker.
They do not answer any of the group's questions,
the group scrambles and the intruders start
shooting at them.
One intruder grabs their water supply.
Eva is discovered in the shower, but Delvin
repeatedly beats him with a sledgehammer.
Mickey stabs one of the intruders, grabs his
gun and shoots another from behind.
He turns on the lights and locks the door
with a chain.
Adrien is shot in the arm and bleeding profusely.
Eva treats Adrien's wound, but he can barely
use his arm (it's clear they are attracted
to each other).
Eva later finds Sam, who is traumatized.
Mickey tapes the door shut again.
They speculate who the attacker might be.
Delvin says he heard them say something about
finishing the sweep and they had an American
accent.
Marilyn has woken up and is trying to get
out of the bunker to get her daughter.
As everyone tries to calm her down, she goes
crazy and gets locked in one of the rooms.
As Delvin fiddles with the radio, he notices
something in Mickey's pocket, a sausage, he
is holding out food on them.
Sam is completely freaked out.
Ava seems to be the only one sympathetic to
Marilyn.
She brings her food and Marilyn says Wendi
was all she had left.
The group decides to go in search of Wendi.
Josh agrees to put on one of the hazmat suits.
They open the bunker and find that the area
is completely sealed off by material tunnels
connected to some sort of lab, where he sees
other intruders.
They do not seem to suspect that he's not
one of them.
They have bottled up body parts and baskets
of hair.
In the next room, children are being incubated
and he finds Wendi with her eyes taped.
At that moment, the intruder comes and checks
his ID.
He cuts off Josh’s oxygen supply.
He manages to escape the lab and shoots a
few of them, losing his gun in the process.
He heads back to the bunker.
Josh is in distress and explains what he saw.
He apologizes to Marilyn, breaking her heart.
Sounds come from the door.
Intruders are welding them in.
Some time passes before they get used to their
life underground.
Two bodies of intruders begin to decay.
Josh begins to suffer the effects of radiation
exposure.
Ava visits Adrian's room and talks about their
lives before the disaster, how they were neighbors
and how much she liked him.
They go for a kiss, but Sam arrives and interrupts
them.
The group decides to chop up the bodies and
throw them into the sewer.
Mickey grabs the axe and hands it to Bobby.
After chopping for a while, Bobby comes to
the group, declaring in a nonchalant way that
the axe is blunt, but he still managed to
get the job done.
Marilyn finds emotional support by forming
an intimate relationship with Bobby.
When Delvin passes Mickey's room, it is empty.
As he begins to relieve himself, he hears
a lock noise.
Upon further inspection, he finds Mickey in
his room and starts pestering him with questions
about how he got there or what he has in his
pockets.
Mickey throws him out and sends him packing.
Delvin tells everyone what he experienced.
The group searches Mickey's room.
When he comes back, he wants to know what's
going on.
Delvin says that his room is now their room.
Mickey sullenly says that they will regret
this.
They find out that Mickey used to steal stuff
from their apartments, Delvin found his ball
and Josh found his utensils.
After such a long time in isolation underground,
they have found some kind of happiness in
Mickey's room - the TV.
Marilyn and Bobby find their own little way
to cope with their situation.
Eva finds them and offers to listen to Marilyn's
problems.
Marilyn tries to convince Eva to sleep with
Josh, warning her that in time men will want
her body.
The group becomes more and more angry with
Mickey as resources become scarce.
Mickey punches Josh.
Bobby, Josh and Adrian want to overthrow authority,
as they are sure Mickey is hiding something.
Delvin grabs a taser and goes to confront
Mickey.
Eva spots him.
In Mickey's room, Delvn discovers his locked
safe room and demands Mickey open it.
Eva witnesses all of this happening.
When they enter the locked room, a scuffle
ensues and Mickey shoots Devlin.
The group does not believe Mickey's argument
of self-defence, they knock him out and tie
him to a chair.
Eva tosses the machine gun into the toilet's
septic tank to prevent Josh from using it.
The increasingly sick Josh and the deranged
Bobby torture him to learn the code to the
locked door.
A huge commotion ensues between all the members,
but no one can stop Josh and Bobby.
They cut off his finger and he gives them
the code.
Marilyn has gone crazy.
The locked room is full of supplies.
So far the group has only eaten canned beans,
they are relieved to see so much food and
water.
Bobby leads Mickey into a room and shows him
a magic trick he performed for Wendy with
his finger.
He takes a crap right in front of him and
whispers softly in his ear, "now you're not
alone."
before locking him in isolation.
After a while, Josh is seen getting sicker
and sicker.
Bobby and Josh have seized the authority and
both are physically and emotionally abusing
Marilyn.
When Marilyn tries to get some affection from
Bobby, he knocks her down and tells her to
stay, like a dog.
Josh makes it clear that he wants Eva, and
Sam is unable to stand up for her.
Eva and Sam try to protect Marilyn from Josh
and Bobby, but they can not.
Eva has an emotional breakdown.
At first Sam tries to comfort her, but then
he rather begs her to sleep with him and then
tries to force it.
Marilyn applies excessive makeup to get the
boys to pay her some attention.
Eva witnesses a gruesome scene involving Marilyn,
Bobby, and Josh.
Marilyn comes growling to Eva and Sam.
There are no more words to describe her mental
state, she is like an empty shell.
She is dragged back and when Eva tries to
run after her, Adrien stops her.
They give each other a look and Sam sees it.
Josh calls Eva to talk.
He gives her their own food to ration.
When she asks if that's for all three of them,
he replies no, Mickey is fasting.
Josh says he's open to barter if she wants
more, implying if she's willing to sell her
body.
While Eva is assigned to watch Mickey, Mickey
reveals that there is a gun hidden in his
safe room.
When Eva asks Sam to help her get the gun,
Sam berates her.
Later Sam barks for Bobby and Josh and gets
a treat thrown at him.
When Eva arrives, she sees that Marilyn has
been beaten up.
They invite Eva to a game of truth or dare
for rations.
She accepts and chooses truth.
When asked if she loves Sam, she answers yes.
The situation at the table tightens and when
Sam tries to resolve it, he is yelled at by
Josh to play along too and he should do a
dare, "go chop up Delvin's body."
And smashes the axe on the table.
Sam fought back, but he still is emotionally
forced to do it.
Even after bracing himself he fails to cut
Delvin.
Josh and Bobby force Eva to do it, leaving
her distraught.
Josh and Bobby, both losing their hair due
to illness, shave their heads.
Bobby is crying.
He wears a woman's robe and puts on makeup;
Josh also affects him.
Mickey informs Eva that there is another way
out of the bunker: through the septic tank.
Eva tries to get the gun, but can not get
past the two of them.
She finds Marilyn's body.
The two of them have beaten her to death.
Eva notices that her hair is falling out and
realizes that she is also sick.
The shelter does not protect her from the
outside world because the door is broken.
Eva sends Sam to retrieve the gun while she
cuts the power to distract Bobby and lures
Josh away with the promise of her body.
Sam tries to open the locked room, but they
have changed the code.
Bobby startles him.
He wants to use Sam to satisfy his pent-up
desire.
Josh gets suspicious and hits Ava.
Bobby opens the door and Sam finds the gun,
but drops it and Bobby tries to take it.
Sam kicks Bobby, grabs the gun and tells him
to march.
Josh tries to force himself on Eva, but she
escapes with Adrian's help.
Everyone yells instructions to Sam, he realises
Eva is yelling for him to give Adrian the
gun, he already had his suspicions, but with
that it was clear, Sam shoots Adrian.
Josh brutally beats Sam up.
Bobby turns on Josh and is about to shoot
him when Eva slits his throat with a can lid.
Eva frees Mickey, who shoots Josh.
Mickey has been wheelchair bound for so long
he can barely stand on his feet.
Josh smashes an oil lamp and lights himself
on fire, causing a fire in the shelter.
While Sam and Mickey attempt to put the fire
out.
Eva decides to escape.
She retrieves the hazmat suit and locks herself
in the safe room.
They can not open the door.
Josh and Bobby changed the combination and
they do not know it.
She breaks through the toilet into the septic
tank below, while Mickey and Sam are trapped
and fall victim to the growing flames.
Eva emerges from the septic tank into the
remains of the city.
She stares blankly at the devastation of what
once was New York City.
The end.
Thank you for watching!
Subscribe if you'd like to see more videos
like this.